= AridCache

AridCache now supports Rails 3!

AridCache is a caching framework written in Ruby which makes caching easy and effective.  AridCache supports Rails 2 and 3 and provides caching on any ActiveRecord class or instance method right out of the box.  AridCache keeps caching logic in your cache configuration rather than dispersed throughout your code, and makes your code easy to manage by making cached calls explicit.

AridCache supports caching large, expensive ActiveRecord collections by caching only the model IDs, provides efficient in-memory pagination of your cached collections, and gives you collection counts for free.  Non-ActiveRecord collection data is cached unchanged allowing you to cache the results of anything simply by prepending your method call with <tt>cached_</tt>.

AridCache simplifies caching by supporting auto-expiring cache keys - as well as common options like <tt>:expires_in</tt> - and provides methods to help you manage your caches.  AridCache now supports counts, limits, pagination and in-memory sorting of any cached Enumerable, as well as Proxies, a powerful new feature which gives you total control over your cached data.

== Changes

* v1.4.0: Rails 3 fully supported!
* v1.3.5: Backwards-compatibility fixes
* v1.3.4: Inherited cache configurations: Cache options and cache blocks are inherited from superclasses
* v1.3.2: <tt>AridCache.raw_with_options</tt> configuration for better <tt>:raw</tt> handling on cached ActiveRecord collections
* v1.3.1: Proxy support which allow you to control how your objects get serialized and unserialized
* v1.3.0: Support limits, ordering and pagination on cached Enumerables
* v1.2.0: Fix Rails 3 ActiveRecord hooks & remove some Rails dependencies...almost Rails agnostic!
* v1.0.5: Support <tt>:raw</tt> and <tt>:clear</tt> options.

== Install

<b>Rails 3:</b>

Add the gem to your `Gemfile`

  gem 'arid_cache'

Then

  bundle install

<b>Rails 2:</b>

Add the gem to your <tt>config/environment.rb</tt> file:

  config.gem 'arid_cache'

Then

  rake gems:install

== Features

* Include the AridCache module in any Class
* <b>Rails 2 & 3 supported</b> with automatic ActiveRecord::Base integration.
* When using ActiveRecord 3, returns lazy-loaded result sets.
* Auto-generated, namespaced cache keys
* <b>auto-expiring cache keys</b> - your cache expires when the updated_at timestamp changes
* Supports *limits*, *ordering* & *pagination* of cached Enumerables and ActiveRecord collections
* Define caches and their options on your class using +instance_caches+ and +class_caches+
* <b>Counts for free</b> - if you have already cached the result, you get the count for free
* <b>Smart counts</b> - if you only ask for the count it will only calculate the count; useful when the result is an Association Reflection or a named scope.
* Supports <b>eager-loading</b> and other options to <tt>ActiveRecord::Base#find</tt> like <tt>:conditions</tt>, <tt>:include</tt>, <tt>:joins</tt>, <tt>:select</tt>, <tt>:readonly</tt>, <tt>:group</tt>, <tt>:having</tt>, <tt>:from</tt>
* Provides methods to <b>clear caches</b> individually, at the instance-level, class-level and globally
* <b>Preserves ordering</b> of your cached ActiveRecord collections
* <b>Optimized</b> to make as few cache and database accesses as absolutely neccessary
* Define your own <b>cache proxy</b> to serialize your objects as they go to and from the cache
* <b>Inherited cache configurations</b> - subclasses inherit cache options and cache blocks from superclasses.

== Introduction

The name AridCache comes from <b>A</b>ctive<b>R</b>ecord *ID* Cache.  It's also very DRY...get it? :)

Out of the box AridCache supports caching on all your ActiveRecord class and instance methods and named scopes.  If a class or class instance <tt>respond_to?</tt> something, you can cache it.

AridCache supports limits, pagination and ordering options on cached ActiveRecord collections and any other Enumerable.  Options to apply limits are <tt>:limit</tt> and <tt>:offset</tt>.  Options for pagination are <tt>:page</tt> and <tt>:per_page</tt> and the <tt>:order</tt> option accepts the same values as ActiveRecord::Base#find.  If the cached value is an ActiveRecord collection most other options to ActiveRecord::Base#find are supported too.  If the cached value is an Enumerable (e.g. an Array) the value for :order must be a <tt>Proc</tt>.  The Proc is passed to Enumerable#sort to do the sorting.  Unless the Enumerable is a list of Hashes in which case it can be a String or Symbol giving the hash key to sort by.

The way you interact with the cache via your model methods is to prepend the method call with <tt>cached_</tt>.  The part of the method call after <tt>cached_</tt> serves as the basis for the cache key.  For example,

  User.cached_count            # cache key is arid-cache-user-count
  genre.cached_top_ten_tracks  # cache key is arid-cache-genres/<id>-top_ten_tracks

You can also define caches that use compositions of methods or named scopes, or other complex queries, without having to add a new method to your class.  This way you can also create different caches that all use the same method.  For example,

  class User
    named_scope :active, :conditions => { :active => true }
    class_caches do
      most_active_users(:limit => 5) do
        active.find(:order => 'activity DESC')
      end
    end
  end

This defines a cache +most_active_users+ on the User class which we can call with:

  User.cached_most_active_users
  >> [#<User>, #<User>]

This will return up to five users, but there may be many more in the cache, because we didn't apply a limit in our call to <tt>active.find()</tt>.  We can also pass options to the call to override the stored options:

  User.cached_most_active_users(:limit => 1)
  >> [#<User>]

=== ActiveRecord Collections

If the result of your <tt>cached_</tt> call is an array of ActiveRecords, AridCache only stores the IDs in the cache (because it's a bad idea to store records in the cache).

On subsequent calls we call <tt>find_all_by_id</tt> on the target class passing in the ActiveRecord IDs that were stored in the cache.  AridCache will preserve the original ordering of your collection (you can change this using the <tt>:order</tt> option).

The idea here is to cache collections that are expensive to query.  Once the cache is loaded, retrieving the cached records from the database simply involves a <tt>SELECT * FROM table WHERE id IN (ids, ...)</tt>.

Consider how long it would take to get the top 10 favorited tracks of all time from a database with a million tracks and 100,000 users.  Now compare that to selecting 10 tracks by ID from the track table.  The performance gain is huge.

=== Enumerables

Cached enumerables support find-like options such as <tt>:limit</tt>, <tt>:offset</tt> and <tt>order</tt> as well as pagination options <tt>:page</tt> and <tt>:per_page</tt>.  <tt>:order</tt> must be a <tt>Proc</tt>.  It is passed to Enumerable#sort to do the sorting.  Unless the enumerable contains hashes in which case <tt>:order</tt> can be a string or symbol hash key to order by.

=== Base Types and Other Collections

Anything that is not an array of ActiveRecords is cached as-is.  Numbers, arrays, hashes, nils, whatever.

=== Example

An example of caching using existing methods on your class:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_many    :pets
    has_one     :preferences
    named_scope :active, :conditions => [ 'updated_at <= ', 5.minutes.ago ]
  end

  User.cached_count          # uses the built-in count method
  User.cached_active         # only stores the IDs of the active users in the cache
  User.cached_active_count   # returns the count of active users directly from the cache

  user.cached_pets_count     # only selects the count until the collection is requested
  user.cached_pets           # loads the collection and stores the pets IDs in the cache

== Defining Your Caches

=== Dynamically

To dynamically define caches just pass a block to your <tt>cached_</tt> calls.  Caches can be defined on your classes or class instances.  For example,

  User.cached_most_active_users do
    active.find(:order => 'activity DESC', :limit => 5)
  end

  => [#<User id: 23>, #<User id: 30>, #<User id: 5>, #<User id: 2>, #<User id: 101>]

  user.cached_favorite_pets do
    pets.find(:all, :conditions => { 'favorite' => true })
  end

  => [#<Pet id: 11>, #<Pet id: 21>, #<Pet id: 3>]

=== Configuring Caches on your Models

We can clean up our views significantly by configuring caches on our model rather than defining them dynamically and passing options in each time.  You configure caches by calling <tt>instance_caches(options={})</tt> or <tt>class_caches(options={})</tt> with a block and defining your caches inside the block (you don't need to prepend <tt>cached_</tt> when defining these caches because we are not returning results, just storing options).

You can pass a hash of options to <tt>instance_caches</tt> and <tt>class_caches</tt> to have those options applied to all caches in the block.  The following is a more complex example that also demonstrates nested cached calls.

  # app/models/genre.rb
  class Genre
    class_caches do
      most_popular do
        popular(:limit => 10, :order => 'popularity DESC')
      end
    end

    instance_caches(:order => 'release_date DESC') do
      highlight_tracks(:include => [:album, :artist]) do
        cached_tracks(:limit => 10, :include => [:album, :artist])
      end
      highlight_artists(:order => nil) do   # override the global :order option
        cached_artists(:limit => 10)
      end
      highlight_albums(:include => :artist) do
        cached_albums(:limit => 3, :include => :artist)
      end
    end
  end

  # app/controllers/genre_controller.rb
  @most_popular = Genre.cached_most_popular
  @tracks  = @genre.cached_highlight_tracks
  @artists = @genre.cached_highlight_artists
  @albums  = @genre.cached_highlight_albums

You can configure your caches in this manner wherever you want, but I think the model is a good place.  If you wanted to move all your cache configurations to a file in <tt>lib</tt> or elsewhere, your calls would look like,

  Genre.class_caches do
    ...
  end
  Genre.instance_caches do
    ...
  end

== Cache Keys

AridCache cache keys are defined based on the methods you call to interact with the cache.  For example:

  Album.cached_featured_albums  => cache key is arid-cache-album-featured_albums
  album.cached_top_tracks       => cache key is arid-cache-albums/<id>-top_tracks

Caches on model instances can be set to automatically incorporate the ActiveRecord <tt>cache_key</tt> which includes the <tt>updated_at</tt> timestamp of that instance, making them auto-expire when the instance is updated.

To incorporate the the <tt>cache_key</tt> pass <b><tt>:auto_expire => true</tt></b> to your cache method:

  album.cached_top_tracks(:auto_expire => true) => cache key like arid-cache-albums/2-20091211120100-top_tracks

Or via the cache configuration:

  Album.instance_caches do
    top_tracks(:auto_expire => true)
  end

If you need to examine values in the cache yourself you can build the AridCache key by calling <tt>arid_cache_key('method')</tt> on your object, whether it is a class or instance.  Using the examples above we would call,

  Album.arid_cache_key('featured_albums') => arid-cache-album-featured_albums
  album.arid_cache_key('top_tracks')      => arid-cache-albums/2-top_tracks
  album.arid_cache_key('top_tracks', :auto_expire => true) => arid-cache-albums/2-20091211120100-top_tracks

== Managing your Caches

=== Deleting & Expiring Caches

AridCache provides methods to help you clear your caches:

  AridCache.clear_caches      => expires all AridCache caches
  Model.clear_caches          => expires class and instance-level caches for this model
  Model.clear_instance_caches => expires instance-level caches for this model
  Model.clear_class_caches    => expires class-level caches for this model

The <tt>Model.clear_caches</tt> methods are also available on all model instances.

<B>Your cache store needs to support the <tt>delete_matched</tt> method for the above to work. Currently MemCacheStore and MemoryStore do not.</b>

Alternatively you can pass a <b><tt>:force => true</tt></b> option in your <tt>cached_</tt> calls to force a refresh of a particular cache, while still returning the refreshed results.  For example:

  Album.cached_featured_albums(:force => true)  => returns featured albums
  album.cached_top_tracks(:force => true)       => returns top tracks

If you just want to clear a cache without forcing a refresh pass <b><tt>:clear => true</tt></b>.  The cached value will be deleted with no unnecessary queries or cache reads being performed.  It is safe to pass this option even if there is nothing in the cache yet.  The method returns the result of calling <tt>delete</tt> on your cache object.  For example:

    Album.cached_featured_albums(:clear => true)  => returns false
    Rails.cache.read(Album.arid_cache_key(:featured_albums)) => returns nil

You can pass an <b><tt>:expires_in</tt></b> option to your caches to manage your cache expiry (if your cache store supports this option, which most do).

  Album.cached_featured_albums(:expires_in => 1.day)
  album.cached_top_tracks(:expires_in => 1.day)

Or via the cache configuration,

  Album.instance_caches(:expires_in => 1.day) do
    top_tracks
    featured_albums
  end

== Extras

=== Cached Counts

AridCache gives you counts for free.  When a collection is stored in the cache
AridCache stores the count as well so the next time you request the count it
just takes a single read from the cache.

To get the count just append <tt>_count</tt> to your <tt>cached_</tt> call.  For example, if we have a cache like <tt>album.cached_tracks</tt> we can get the count by calling,

  album.cached_tracks        => returns an array of tracks
  album.cached_tracks_count  => returns the count with a single read from the cache

This is also supported for your non-ActiveRecord collections if the collection <tt>responds_to?(:count)</tt>.  For example,

  album.cached_similar_genres       => returns ['Pop', 'Rock', 'Rockabilly']
  album.cached_similar_genres_count => returns 3

Sometimes you may want the collection count without loading and caching the collection itself.  AridCache is smart enough that if you only ask for a count it will only query for the count.  This is only possible if the return value of your method is a named scope or association proxy (since these are lazy-loaded unlike a call to <tt>find()</tt>).

In the example above if we only ever call <tt>album.cached_tracks_count</tt>, only the count will be cached.  If we subsequently call <tt>album.cached_tracks</tt> the collection will be loaded and the IDs cached as per normal.

Other methods for caching counts are provided for us by virtue of ActiveRecord's built-in methods and named scopes, for example,

  Artist.cached_count  # takes advantage of the built-in method Artist.count

=== Pagination

AridCache supports pagination using WillPaginate.  If you are not changing the order of the cached collection the IDs are paginated in memory and only that page is selected from the database - directly from the target table, which is extremely fast.

An advantage of using AridCache is that since we already have the size of the collection in the cache no query is required to set the <tt>:total_entries</tt> on the <tt>WillPaginate::Collection</tt>.

To paginate just pass a <tt>:page</tt> option in your call to <tt>cached_</tt>.  If you don't pass a value for <tt>:per_page</tt> AridCache gets the value from <tt>Model.per_page</tt>, which is what <tt>WillPaginate</tt> uses.

The supported pagination options are:
  :page, :per_page, :total_entries, :finder

Some examples of pagination:

  User.cached_active(:page => 1, :per_page => 30)
  User.cached_active(:page => 2)                  # uses User.per_page
  user.cached_pets(:page => 1)                    # uses Pet.per_page

If you want to paginate using a different ordering, pass an <tt>:order</tt> option.  Because the order is being changed AridCache cannot paginate in memory.  Instead, the cached IDs are passed to your <tt>Model.paginate</tt> method along with any other options and the database will order the collection, apply limits and offsets, etc.  Because the number of records the database deals with is limited, this is still much, much faster than ordering over the whole table.

For example, the following queries will work:

  user.cached_companies(:page => 1, :per_page => 3, :order => 'name DESC')
  user.cached_companies(:page => 1, :per_page => 3, :order => 'name ASC')

By specifying an <tt>:order</tt> option in our cached call we can get different "views" of the cached collection.  I think this a "good thing".  However, you need to be aware that in order to guarantee that the ordering you requested is the same as the order of the initial results (when the cache was primed), we have to order in the database.  This results in two queries being executed the first time you query the cache (one to prime it and the other to order and return the results).  If no order option is specified, we can skip the second query and do everything in memory.

If you have an expensive cache and don't want that extra query, just define a new cache with your desired ordering and use that.  Make sure that the order of the initial results matches your desired ordering.  Building on the example above we could do:

  User.instance_caches do
    companies_asc do
      companies(:order => 'name ASC')
    end
    companies_desc do
      companies(:order => 'name DESC')
    end
  end
  user.cached_companies_asc(:page => 1, :per_page => 3)
  user.cached_companies_desc(:page => 1, :per_page => 3)


=== Limit & Offset

You apply <tt>:limit</tt> and <tt>:offset</tt> options in a similar manner to the <tt>:page</tt> and <tt>:per_page</tt> options.  The limit and offset will be applied in memory and only the resulting subset selected from the target table - unless you specify a new order.

  user.cached_pets(:limit => 2, :include => :toys)
  user.cached_pets(:limit => 2, :offset => 3, :include => :toys)
  genre.cached_top_ten_tracks { cached_tracks(:limit => 10, :order => 'popularity DESC') }

=== Other Options to <tt>find</tt>

The supported options to <tt>find</tt> are:
  :conditions, :include, :joins, :limit, :offset, :order,
  :select, :readonly, :group, :having, :from, :lock

You can pass options like <tt>:include</tt> (or any other valid <tt>find</tt> options) to augment the results of your cached query.  Just because all of the options are supported, does not mean it's a good idea to use them, though.  Take a look at your logs to see how AridCache is interacting with the cache and the database if you don't get the results you expect.

For example, we could call:

  User.cached_active(:page => 2, :per_page => 10, :include => :preferences)

To return page two of the active users, with the <tt>preferences</tt> association eager-loaded for all the users.

=== The <tt>:raw</tt> option & Accessing the cached IDs directly

When you cache a collection of ActiveRecords, the records IDs are stored in the cache in a <tt>AridCache::CacheProxy::CachedResult</tt> which is a <tt>Struct</tt> with methods to return the <tt>ids</tt>, <tt>count</tt> and <tt>klass</tt> of the cached records.

Sometimes you may want to access what is in the cache without instantiating any records.  <tt>:raw => true</tt> is what you use for that.

The current (and deprecated) behaviour of <tt>:raw => true</tt> is to return the +CachedResult+ object and ignore all other options - if the cached result is an ActiveRecord collection.  Passing <tt>:raw => true</tt> when you have cached an Enumerable or some other base type does not share this behaviour.  For these types <tt>:raw => true</tt> returns whatever is in the cache, after applying all options.  This means that we can apply limits, ordering and pagination to our cached results and return the same type of data as is stored in the cache.

v1.3.2 introduces a new configuration option which makes the behaviour on cached ActiveRecord collections the same as for other cached types.  Set

  AridCache.raw_with_options = true

to enable the new behaviour.  With this option set, rather than return a <tt>CachedResult</tt> <tt>:raw => true<tt> will return the list of IDs itself, <b>after applying all options</b>.  So you can limit, order (with a Proc) and paginate the IDs before they are returned.  Keep in mind the <tt>:order</tt> Proc is applied <b>to the cached/raw data</tt>.

Note that passing the <tt>:raw</tt> option to your cache store is not supported, because the AridCache option shares the same name.  If you really want to get the marshalled result from your cache you can do a cache read manually.

The current (deprecated) behaviour:

  user = User.first
  user.cached_favorite_tracks  => returns [#<Track:1>, #<Track:2>]
  user.cached_favorite_tracks(:raw => true) => returns
      {
        :klass => "Track",  # stored as a string
        :count => 1,
          :ids => [1, 2]
      }
  user.cached_favorite_tracks(:raw => true).ids => returns [1, 2]

The cache will be primed if it is empty, so you can be sure that it will always return a <tt>AridCache::CacheProxy::CachedResult</tt>.

In some circumstances - like when you are querying on a named scope - if you have only requested a count, only the count is computed, which means the ids array is <tt>nil</tt>.  When you call your cached method passing in <tt>:raw => true</tt> AridCache detects that the ids array has not yet been set, so in this case it will perform a query to seed the ids array before returning the result.  This can be seen in the following example:

  class User
    named_scope :guests, :conditions => { :account_type => ['guest'] }
  end

  User.cached_guests_count => returns 4
  Rails.cache.read(User.arid_cache_key(:guests)) => returns
    {
      :klass => "User",
      :count => 4,
        :ids => nil                 # notice the ids array is nil in the cache
    }
  User.cached_guests(:raw => true) => returns
    {
      :klass => "User",
      :count => 4,
        :ids => [2, 235, 236, 237]  # the ids array is seeded before returning
    }

With <tt>AridCache.raw_with_options = true</tt>:

    user = User.first
    user.cached_favorite_tracks
    >> [#<Track:1>, #<Track:2>]
    user.cached_favorite_tracks(:raw => true)
    >> [1, 2]
    user.cached_favorite_tracks(:order => Proc.new { |a, b| b <=> a }, :raw => true)
    >> [2, 1]
    user.cached_favorite_tracks(:offset => 1, :raw => true)
    >> [2]

== Proxies

Proxies allow you to do anything you want to your objects as they go into - and come out of - the cache.  They are most useful for serializing your objects, for example if you want to store JSON, or hashes.

The <tt>:proxy</tt> option should be a Symbol giving the name of a class method.  The method is passed the result of your cache block (or method) as the first parameter, and in future may also pass a Hash of options.  The method is called on the class that calls +cached_+.

A simple example of a proxy which stores hashes of ActiveRecord attributes:

  class User
    has_many :companies

    instance_caches do
      companies(:proxy => :serializing_proxy)
    end

    def self.serializing_proxy(records, *args)
      return records if records.empty?
      records.first.is_a?(ActiveRecord::Base) ? records.collect(&:attributes) : records.collect { |r| Company.find_by_id(r['id']) }
    end
  end

Now when we first call <tt>User.first.cached_companies<tt> the cache is empty, so the cache method (<tt>companies</tt>) is called and the result is passed to <tt>User.serializing_proxy</tt> which converts the records to Hashes.  The result of the proxy is stored in the cache.  The next time we call <tt>User.first.cached_companies<tt> the cached result is retrieved and passed to <tt>User.serializing_proxy</tt> which converts the hashes to records, so we get ActiveRecords back.

  @user = User.first
  @user.cached_companies
  >> [#<Company id: 1>, #<Company id: 2>]

  @user.cached_companies(:raw => true)
  >> [{ 'id' => 1 }, { 'id' => 2 }]

The <tt>:raw</tt> option bypasses the proxy on the way out of the cache because we are asking for a raw result.  The <tt>:raw</tt> option works a bit differently from the default behaviour (which is to return a <tt>CachedResult</tt> object if the cached result is an ActiveRecord collection) because you can use options to do limiting, pagination and in-memory ordering with <tt>:raw</tt> to get different views of your cached enumerable.

Proxies still support limits, pagination and ordering, which is applied to the cached result.  For example:

Limits:

  @user.cached_companies(:limit => 2, :offset => 1)
  >> [#<Company id: 2>]

Pagination returns a <tt>WillPaginate::Collection</tt>:

  result = @user.cached_companies(:page => 2, :per_page => 1)
  >> [#<Company id: 2>]
  result.total_entries
  >> 1
  result.current_page
  >> 2

Order by:

  @user.cached_companies(:order => Proc.new { |a, b| b['id'] <=> a['id'] })
  >> [#<Company id: 2>, #<Company id: 1>]

The above Proc orders by id reversed.  We can also combine all the options.  The order by will be applied first, then the limits and finally the pagination.

All of the above calls work with <tt>raw => true</tt>.  With that option the results would be same but instead of returning records, it returns hashes.

In practice you probably want to define your proxy method on <tt>ActiveRecord::Base</tt> so that it is available to all your models.  In future AridCache will probably have some built-in proxies that you can make use of.

== Inherited Cache Options

Subclasses automatically inherit cache definitions from their superclasses.  The options for a particular cache are merged, with options from subclasses overriding the superclass.  If a superclass defines a block for that cache, the one from the closest ancestor is used.

Here is a simple example:

  class Abc
    include AridCache
    instance_caches do
      name(:limit => 2) { 'abc' }
      actual_name(:limit => 2)
    end

    def actual_name
      'abc'
    end
  end

  class Def < Abc
    instance_caches do
      name(:limit => 1)
      actual_name(:limit => 1)
    end

    def actual_name
      'def'
    end
  end

  > a, d = Abc.new, Def.new
  > a.cached_name
  "ab"
  > a.cached_actual_name
  "ab"
  > d.cached_name
  "a"

So here +cached_name+ is using its own <tt>:limit => 1</tt> with the block from +Abc+.  So it's returning the first character of 'abc'.

  > d.cached_actual_name
  "d"

Here +cached_actual_name+ is using its own <tt>:limit => 1</tt> but since no ancestor class defines a block on the cache, it uses the method from the instance.  So it's returning the first character of 'def'.

== Efficiency

* AridCache intercepts calls to <tt>cached_</tt> methods using <tt>method_missing</tt> then defines those methods on your models as they are called, so they bypass method missing on subsequent calls.
* In-memory pagination of cached collections speeds up your queries.  See _Pagination_.
* If you only request a count AridCache will only select the count.  See <i>Cached Counts</i>.
* If a collection has already been loaded, you get the count for free.  See <i>Cached Counts</i>.

== Compatibility

Ruby: 1.8.6, 1.8.7, REE 1.8.7 and 1.9.1.
Rails: 2.3.8, 2.3.11, 3.0.0, Rails 3.0.5, 3.0.6
WillPaginate: 2.3.15 (Rails 2), 3.0.pre2 (Rails 3)

For Ruby < 1.8.7 you probably want to include the following to extend the Array class with a <tt>count</tt> method.  Otherwise your <tt>cached_<key>_count</tt> calls probably won't work:

  Array.class_eval { alias count size }

== Resources

* {RDoc}[http://rdoc.info/github/kjvarga/arid_cache/master/frames]

== Known Issues

1. <b>Caches that contains duplicate records will only return unique records on subsequent calls</b>.  This is because of the way <tt>find</tt> works when selecting multiple ids.  For example, if your query returns <tt>[#<User id: 1>, #<User id: 1>, #<User id: 1>]</tt>, the IDs are cached as <tt>[1,1,1]</tt>.  On the next call to the cache we load the IDs using <tt>User.find_all_by_id([1,1,1])</tt> which returns <tt>[#<User id: 1>]</tt>, not <tt>[#<User id: 1>, #<User id: 1>, #<User id: 1>]</tt> as you might have expected.
2. <b>You can't cache polymorphic arrays</b> e.g. [#<User id: 1>, #<Pet id: 5>] because it expects all ActiveRecords to be of the same class.  If you need polymorphism consider using a proxy and do the record-loading yourself.
3. Rails ActiveRecord (or SQL) has a quirk where if you pass an +offset+ without a +limit+ the +offset+ is ignored.  AridCache fixes this unexpected behaviour by including a +limit+ on its queries.
4. When you use the <tt>:order</tt> option with a cached ActiveRecord collection we have to go to the database to order.  So we also do pagination and limiting there because we want to retrieve as few records as possible.  So we use WillPaginate's ActiveRecord::Base#paginate method.  Unfortunately if you pass <tt>:limit</tt> or <tt>:offset</tt> in addition to your pagination options, the limit and offset are ignored.  This is not the behaviour when interacting with other cached types.  In that case we apply the order, then the limits and finally the pagination, which is what you would expect.
5. There is a {bug in ActiveRecord 3's AREL}[http://breakthebit.org/post/3487560245/rails-3-arel-count-size-length-weirdness] where calling +count+ or +size+ on an AREL query will cause a </tt>COUNT(*)<tt> to be executed but without applying a +LIMIT+.  Calling +length+ works as expected, and returns the number of records that matched the query.  So we alias +count+ and +size+ to the +length+ on the AREL object that is returned.

== Contributors

Contributions are welcome!  Please,

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it (this is important so I don't break it in a future release).
* Commit (don't mess with the Rakefile, version, or history).
* Send me a pull request.

==== Thank-you to these contributors to AridCache:

* {Sutto}[http://github.com/Sutto]

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Karl Varga. See LICENSE for details.
